# Explination of columns in Gene_CpG_Relations_updatejune2015.RData

## This annotation was made By Rachel Edgar

The R object includes an CpG to Gene map for every CpG on the 450K. The coordinate and chromosome are hg19/build 37. The gene name comes from Refseq genes downloaded from UCSC. This annotation's main difference from other annotations is it allows for a CpG to be associated with multiple genes. So the R object is 688909 rows, this means CpGs will be listed multiple times, which should be considered when using the annotation. Additionally, all isoforms from refseq were kept, and the isoform was included as a column. This allows a CpG to be associated with a gene in multiple ways (ie in one isoform's promoter and another isoform's gene body). The final column is how the CpG is associated with the gene. If the CpG is 1500bp upstream of a gene's TSS or 300 downstream it is considered to be in the genes promoter. If the CpG is 300bp downstream of the genes TSS to 300 bp upstream of the genes end then it is considered in a genes body (intragenic). If the CpG is 300 bp +- the gene end it is in the 3' region. Importantly, there is a 4th category which closest TSS does not take into account, if a CpG is in none of the above categories it is considered intergenic and not directly associated with a gene.  

Here is my blurb on the annotation. 

*There are multiple approaches to associating a CpG with a gene, such as the closest TSS (Price et al., 2013), presence in a gene’s body or promoter (Bibikova et al., 2011). We have used a CpG to gene association definition that allows for mulitple gene features, as well as multiple genes. Our inclusive associations is an attempt to capture all possible roles of a CpG in gene regulation. Refseq genes were downloaded from UCSC, including all isoforms of a gene. The gene list included 24,047 genes and a total of 33,431 unique transcription units. The 485,512 CpGs on the 450K array associated with 23,018 genes (43.8% intragenic, 34.2% promoter, 2.5% 3’ region, 19.5% intergenic).*
